Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says the intense phase of
Israel's war against Hamas in Gaza is
quote about to end speaking on Israeli
TV Netanyahu said the Army is close to
completing its current ground offensive
in the southern city of Rafa but
maintained that the fighting won't stop
until the group behind the October 7th
Terror attacks no longer controls Gaza
he also warned more Israeli forces will
move to the border with Lebanon where
fighting with Hezbollah has escalated
did Tanya Kramer has more for us from
Jerusalem Tanya where does all this
leave us in the
war well prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu gave this interview you have
to say a rare interview to a local uh TV
uh Channel a right-wing Channel as it is
known here where he was saying basically
that the intense phase of the war is
winding down and he also indicated that
the Army is close to completing its
offensive in rafar the southern city in
uh Southern uh Gaza but without giving a
timeline or without giving even more
details but he also said the war is
actually uh not over this would mean uh
he said that fewer troops would be
needed in Gaza and they would be
redeployed uh to uh Northern Israel he
also said in that interview uh that he
was prepared only for a partial uh deal
an agreement that would see a ceasefire
a PA in fighting including then also the
release of some of the hostages uh as he
said but that the war will not be ending
until uh Hamas is removed from power now
these comments he made were very uh
sharply criticized here especially by uh
uh groups that are representing uh the
hostage uh families saying that he would
therefore abandon uh some of the
hostages that remain uh in Gaza and uh
prime minister the prime minister's
office then issued a clarifying
statement that they would not abandon
the hostages that is actually Hamas
who's not uh agreeing uh to the deal but
it's very it seen as problematic as
there's no incentive right now for Hamas
to agree to such a deal that has been
stalled that's a ceasefire hostage deal
that's on the table because their main
demand was always to get a clear
timeline for When The War uh will end to
enter such an agreement ant what about
the situation at the border with Lebanon
fighting between Israel and hasah has
increased in recent weeks can you tell
us where things stand there
now well absolutely and there was always
uh you know the the understanding in
Israel that once the uh offensive in
rafar in Gaza would be coming to an end
then the attention of Israel would then
uh turn uh nor to its northern border
and as you have rightly said uh there
has been a lot of crossb fying actually
since October 8 hollah has joined uh the
War so to speak but this has been
intensifying in uh recent weeks we seen
more attacks going deeper into Israel by
Hezbollah but also attacks by Israel
deeper into uh Lebanese territory
against uh Hezbollah Israel wants to
push Hezbollah back from its border uh
tens of thousands of Israelis had to
leave the area have left homes and uh
you know cities and uh uh villages uh in
this area there have been displaced
there and this is something that Israel
cannot accept so we heard Netanyahu
saying that he would look for a
diplomatic solution there are some
efforts underway but if there's no
diplomatic solution he would look uh for
another way and of course there is the
concern right now that if there would be
an Israeli attack on Southern libanon
this could actually go into a wider uh
uh War um with Iran potentially joining
and its militias across the region Tanya
thank you as always that is DW's at
Tanya Kramer in Jerusalem